# Meeting Notes — ML Classifier / Hardware Team  — 10-15-2025

- **Date:** 10-15-2025 
- **Facilitator:** Sam Mansouri  
- **Note-taker:** Sam Mansouri  

## Agenda
1. WSL/Xcode Setup  
2. Shell Commands in Terminal
3. C Programming Hello, World! Example

## Notes (by agenda item)
### 1. WSL/Xcode Setup
- Summary: Download WSL if on Windows, or Xcode if on Mac. These will provide you necessary developer tools.
- Key points: Make sure to get Git and GCC/Clang
- Action items:
    - Install WSL (Windows) or Xcode (Mac)

### 2. Shell Commands in Terminal
- Summary: Learn how to use the terminal to navigate the computer.
- Key points: Practice using the basic commands; the more you use them the more you will get the hang of it. It will be the best way to work with lean systems like our Jetson Orin Nano.
- Learn these commands:
    * wsl - launches wsl in your terminal
    * pwd - print working directory (where am I!?)
    * ls - list (what is here!?)
    * cd - change directory (where am I going!?)
    * cd ./folder - goes to a child called folder
    * cd ../ - goes go the parent folder
    * cd ~/ - goes to the home folder
    * cd ./folder/lilfolder - goes to lilfolder, which is a child of folder
    * mkdir ./MyFolder - makes a folder called MyFolder where you currently are
    * touch myFile - makes a file called myFile where you currently are
    * nano myFile - opens myFile in a text editor called nano. Ctrl S to save, Ctrl X to exit.
    * cat myFile - concatenates the file contents in your command line, good for small files
    * less myFile - provides a scrollable view of your file, good for large files
    * rm myFile - deletes myFile
    * mv ./myFile ./ ../destination - moves myFile from current location to sister folder called destination
    * gcc myProgram.c -o "MyExecutable.out" - compiles your C program into an executable
    * ./MyExecutable.out - Runs your C program
    * jobs - list programs currently running
    * kill %1 - kills (closes) the program with process ID 1
    * echo $SHELL - echo is basically a print statement. $SHELL is a global variable on your OS that tells you what shell (basically the language we are using to work with our OS) you are running

### 3. C Programming Hello, World! Example
- Summary: Walked through writing a basic C program together, just syntax, no memory allocation. Then compiled in command line.
- Key points:
    * Standard I/O is needed to use ``printf()`` function.
    * Include ``\n`` to put a new line at the end of a string. It is not built in.
    * ``argc`` and ``argv``, Argument Count and Argument Vector, are your command line arguments
    * Return a 0 from main to indicate success, any other number is an error code
- Action items:
    - Compile a C program on your own!
- Example:
```c
// Include Input-Output Header so we can print
#include <stdio.h>

// main function, this is where our program starts!
int main (int argc, char *argv[]){
printf("Hello!\n");
return 0;
}
```
- To compile:
```bash
gcc hello.c -o Hello.out
./Hello.out
```

## Issues and Risks
- Issue 1 — Some students cannot find their files when in WSL
    * Solution: Students were looking at their Linux filesystem. To find your Windows files
        - Right-click in File Explorer
        - Click Open in Terminal
        - Type ``wsl`` to launch WSL in that directory

## Next Meeting
- **Date:** 10-16-2025
- **Time:** 07:00 PM  
- **Proposed agenda items:** Requirements Development

## Attachments / References
- [Link](https://www.boringclubuw.org) to materials, docs, designs
